when you dive in a sub you don't really
know what to expect
diving in submersibles makes you
appreciate how diverse the deep ocean is
I don't think people realize what the
oceans can really offer the tools that I
use to do science allow me to go miles
below the sea surface and collect
samples and see things just unimaginable
to most people it definitely could be
unnerving for some people you're sealed
off in this little sphere but for me
when the hatches shut it means that
things are about to get interesting
[Music]
when I went off to college I didn't even
consider being in a stronger fur I
didn't really know that you could be but
I took the course my junior year that's
when I realized that I wanted to be out
on a ship out on the water I wanted to
be exploring I've probably done between
70 and a hundred submersible dives when
I think back on some of the first dives
that I did when we hit the lights on the
seafloor there was always an audible
gasp oh you saw meadows of tubeworms
crabs grazing on their tubeworm tubes
sponges everything is in action all the
time it's almost like a symphony in
front of your eyes
[Music]
they're simulation the deep-sea is a
tough extreme place to live it's dark
and it's cold yet all of these organisms
are adapted to these habitats these
sorts of animals have probably been
living on the bottom of the ocean for
hundreds of millions of years the
organisms that live here are tolerating
incredibly harsh conditions these brines
contain about thousand times more
bacteria and viruses and regular
seawater it creates an ideal situation
for producing bio chemicals that could
be used for medical purposes the oil and
gas industry continues to drill in the
deep oceans certainly there are
resources in the deep sea that people
want to get at but can you do that
without doing irreparable harm to the
ecosystem I'm not convinced that you can
[Music]
we've only explored a fraction of these
deep ocean ecosystems can't just be
exploration for industrialization of the
deep sea
it's got to be exploration for the
betterment of humanity and the
advancement of science every dive you do
changes you and it teaches you something
it opens your eyes to something that you
weren't aware of before the organisms
that are on this slide could contain a
cure for cancer they could contain a new
antibiotic a new antiviral a new
treatment for Alzheimer's I'm so glad
that I have this opportunity to do what
I do it's not a job it's Who I am and I
think most people if you had the chance
you'd want to dive every day
[Music]